docs: add edge cluster tutorial (#7056)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/tutorials/getting-started/introduction-edge/deploy-edge-cluster.md

---
sidebar_label: "Deploy Edge Cluster"
title: "Deploy Edge Cluster"
description: "Get started with Kubernetes at the edge. Learn how to deploy an Edge cluster with Palette."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 60
tags: ["getting-started", "tutorial", "edge"]
---

This is the final tutorial in the Edge Getting Started series. It teaches you how to deploy an Edge Kubernetes cluster
in Palette using the provider images, Edge host, and cluster profile created in the previous tutorials.

You will learn how to select the desired cluster profile, assign the registered Edge host to the cluster, configure the
number of nodes, and verify the deployment was successful by accessing the demo application included in the cluster
profile, [Hello Universe](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe).

## Prerequisites

- You have completed the [Build Edge Artifacts](./build-edge-artifacts.md) tutorial and pushed the provider images to a
  registry.

  :::warning

  If you used [ttl.sh](https://ttl.sh) as the registry, make sure the images were pushed less than 24 hours before

>   following this tutorial. `ttl.sh` is a short-lived registry, and images expire 24 hours after being uploaded.

Author: Excellent point!

  :::

- You have completed the [Prepare Edge Host](./prepare-edge-host.md) tutorial and have a registered Edge host in
  Palette.
- You have completed the [Create Edge Cluster Profile](./edge-cluster-profile.md) tutorial and have an Edge cluster
  profile created in Palette.
- You have access to [Palette's UI](https://www.spectrocloud.com/get-started).

> - You have a DHCP-enabled network with one available IP address on the same network as the Edge host. This IP will be
>   used as the cluster's Virtual IP (VIP) address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You have a DHCP-enabled network with one available IP address on the same network as the Edge host. You will use this IP as the cluster's Virtual IP (VIP) address.
```
I suggest this to avoid passive voice. The Style guide also suggest avoiding future tense, but I think it's suitable here.

Author: :white_check_mark:

## Deploy Edge Cluster

Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

From the left main menu, select **Clusters**, then click **Create Cluster**. If you already have clusters deployed,
select **Add New Cluster** instead. Ensure you are in the **Default** project.

Palette prompts you to select the cluster type. Select **Edge Native** and click the **Start Edge Native Configuration**
button.

In the **Basic Information** section, set the cluster name to `gs-edge-cluster`, add a brief cluster description, and
assign the tag `env:edge`. Click **Next** to proceed.

In the **Cluster Profile** section, click **Add Cluster Profile**, select the `gs-profile` cluster profile you created
earlier, and click **Confirm**.

Review the cluster profile layers and click **Next** to proceed.

> In the **Cluster Config** section, provide a Virtual IP (VIP) address for the Edge cluster. This address must be an

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can also mention network overlay? We do recommend this for DHCP networks, but I am not sure if it's worth going into in the tutorial

Author: Oops. I didn't know it was a DHCP requirement, and it actually makes sense, but then I should have changed the cluster profile tutorial to include the overlay config. I think im going to skip phase 1 and cover overlay in phase 2.

unused address on the same network as your Edge host.

:::tip

> You can use the [nmap](https://nmap.org/book/man.html) tool to scan your network and check which IP addresses are in

Reviewer 2: Oh, I did not know this. That's neat

| **Allow worker capability**             | Yes                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| **Additional Labels (Optional)**        | None                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| **Taints (Optional)**                   | None                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| **Pool Configuration** > **Edge Hosts** | Select the Edge host configured in the [Prepare Edge Host](./prepare-edge-host.md) tutorial to become the node of your cluster. Palette automatically displays the NIC Name for the selected host. |

Next, select **Remove** to delete the worker pool and click **Next** to proceed with the deployment.

> ![A screenshot of the nodes config during cluster deployment.](/getting-started/getting-started_introduction-edge_deploy-edge-cluster_cluster-deployment-nodes.webp)

Reviewer: To be honest, when I was reading the tutorial, the picture confused me a little: I didn't quite understand how it correlated with the text above it and why the edge host was framed in pink. After the sentence above, I expected the picture would show how to click "Remove" or "Next".
I'd probably move the picture above the sentence and below the table. But maybe it's just me. 
I hope it makes sense.

Reviewer 2: I do agree with this. Maybe we can add a sentence like "The final node pool configurations should resemble the following" to better contextualize the screenshot

Author: Oh yes. The image is def in the wrong place. I added both suggestions. Thanks <3
